[Music]
thank you very much as a kind
introduction
um I often wonder what I did to end up
in this space and and this opportunity
to speak was a good way to go back and
catalog sort of the moves I made in the
process so it's going to be a part of it
personal biography part of it will be an
explanation of some of the work that
I've been doing collaborating with
Google's advanced technologies and
projects lab on this new wearable
proposition called Project jacquard part
will be discussing discussing the work I
do in the sustainability space now I'm
leaving the bat wing on all slides
that's sort of hovering above me
reminding me not to Square and not to
still tea because I tend to get I tend
to go off so pardon that corporate
branding component but it's there for a
reason don't swear Paul and it's I get
I'm fortunate to get to talk a lot I go
on but I get to go around and talk about
the work that I do I never get to talk
about it in the hometown and with so
many gals in the audience so it's a
little slow I just did a keynote at
Harvard Design Conference and I was not
nervous at all of it whoa great so and
it's Marky and Matt oh okay so so
let's see that's me okay so writ large
what do I do I'm a fashion designer and
so coming into a conversation that is
intended to sort of discuss cross
disciplinary or anti disciplinary
practice in my case professional
practice is a little uncomfortable
because I'm a huge proponent of a very
rigid set of disciplinary boundaries
largely because that's what I got that's
what I got to work with I was a did a
BFA at Washington University in st.
Louis in fashion design and then as a
Fulbright Scholar in Milan I got my MFA
in fashion design and so I divided my
value entirely along disciplinary lines
and it didn't occur to me to actually
have dialogue on anti disciplinary
practice so gosh after finishing
graduate school moved to New York and
did a very traditional about 16 years in
the fashion industry big design houses
did that whole thing
and it wasn't uh there was some you know
some professional progress that really
helps trying to light on the fact that
the fashion industry is the source of
its own problems it is a you know
generally it's averages and somewhere in
the top five industries in terms of
scale globally employing around 300
million people globally the largest
producer of pollution agricultural
pollution and it's all for crop we don't
in cotton and it is also the source of
jobs for a lot of people globally but
it's also the sort of source of
exploitive low-wage jobs for a lot of
people globally and so I became sort of
disillusioned with the industry over
time and thought that the best way to to
recharge to to to to shed that cynical
perspective was to go teach and that's
that's not how to shed a cynical
perspective it turns out that the life
of the mind in the university is
actually you're going to calcify that
that cynical perspective in ways that
you've never even expected and and my
and my disposition towards this sort of
focus on cross-disciplinary or
interdisciplinary education really hit a
wall there as well because I was
training fashion students almost all of
whom had been compelled to take to
develop to pursue other degrees as well
primarily unfortunately business and
marketing degrees because their parents
were worried they weren't going to be
successful are going to have to move
home and so they wanted them to be
equipped go out and have a real job in
business and and so the other sad thing
that I was confronting in it with the
students is they were all exceptionally
smart all by to the to the student very
good at getting grades and and and as I
was and also good about bitching and
complaining and they were you know they
would be building their prototypes
showing their examples in the fashion
studio complaining about oh god this is
so hard taking so long like you realize
you're making one right you're you're
crafting essentially a prototype
intended to communicate design intent to
a factory eventually the thing that
you're bitching about you're actually
asking someone who's making very low
wages to make a hundred thousand of and
and you're not considering that in any
of your design work and there was this
Rubies sort of myopic focus on what
happens from the runway forward and
nothing about what happened that
preceded that and and and I inquired it
you know with the students well what's
your take on the Triangle Shirtwaist
Astra's Shirtwaist Factory fire occurred
very early days of the 20th century
where a garment factory in Manhattan 6th
floor
the women were being prevented from
unionizing and the owners of the factory
had locked the doors to keep Union Union
rabble out fire started the doors were
locked from the outside and over 100
women mostly young immigrant women died
with their petticoats ablaze jumping out
of window and this was one of the
pivotal formed incidences in the
American labor movement and the students
were entirely unaware of it and anyone
approaching an industry and is willfully
ignorant of the breadth of the
industry's impact really needs to
consider their motivation and so I so I
was done teaching and at Wright I have
read of having this conversation had a
great call from this nice company out on
the other coast that I'd never
considered never considered I'd never
thought about leaving New York I was
Midwest and so I was bicoastal if we
count the Mississippi but the the idea
of going all the way out to California
was just a no to me until it until till
they really they said we'll come do do
whatever you'd like we like what you do
and we want you to do it here and we'll
continue to let you teach and we'll
continue to support it and you know in
fact they paid for my slides back and
forth to st. Louis for they just had
something there was a palpable quality
about business based in San Francisco
that was so distinct in its values
alignment from any of the business had
worked in in New York and I've been in
Calvin from seven years and he can lie
and Tolentino when I was over in Italy
in and there is something different
about this company didn't seem like
other companies and so I got out there
and indeed it wasn't first of all the
weather's lovely the people are lovely
are you to drive a car and you get to
meet amazing people who aren't solely
defined by a disciplinary alignment to
one particular profession you meet
people who have you can't ask the
question what do you do because it'd be
stuck for a long time everyone's doing
everything it is really exciting vibrant
community and I quickly fell in love and
as soon as I landed at Levi's and
started doing the work there an
opportunity arose for me to to to join
something called the Aspen Institute
which is a think-tank
focuses on ethical governance for
government business and education and
what I really seen it when I was a
teacher when I was president Wash U was
that the students weren't indifferent to
uh to other discipline they were just
they were lacking of vocabulary to
participate in other disciplinary
discussions and then they were getting
forced did you follow disciplinary
alignments it wasn't comfortable for
them business in this case when what was
really necessary was not you know dual
degrees in business and designer
business and art but really
opportunities to create platforms for
forum for shared value and ensured
vocabulary and so with at the Aspen
Institute what I started working on was
a design methodology that was sought to
address a whole system's approach to
sustainable design that took into
account both the design aspects and the
business aspects and going through quite
quickly there was first was the creation
of an applied design method that sought
to address the the damages of the harms
of the industry at every point along the
process understanding that much of our
activity in this in sustainability in
the apparel industry is about cleaning
up a mess that's already been made it's
about taking a practice and process that
exists and trying to you know erase the
harm or clean up some the damage never
considering that if we were to realign
our entire methodology not to create a
mess in the first place we might better
traction we might have a we might be
more successful often sustainability in
the apparel industry is recalibrate a
single component people come in at show
with a proposition around an organic
cotton t-shirt never mind those zero
transparency as to where that t-shirt
was made was if any organic cotton can
still be picked by children there are a
whole bunch of other considerations that
go into that and organic cotton can
still be dyed by the most toxic dyes and
the effluence from those dives coming
out of the factories could be entirely
unmanaged there was no single silver
bullet but everyone was approaching it
with an appetite for a one word solution
that was easily printed on a brown paper
hang tag with the green leaf is
suggesting that somehow by viola
mediating a single harm that you were
you were doing good and that's not the
case that you must have intention behind
all decisions you must focus on values
guided material sourcing strategy most
values guided intention around
allocation
create social value you must let
intention take you to a design solution
that is engineered for low impact and so
on and so on that there are all these
different points of intersection if you
believe in the value of recycled cotton
are you designing cotton I mean a
garment that is fundamentally recyclable
have you designed out all synthetics
from that garment so that it can go in
as a pure input single fiber strategy is
a very difficult thing to achieve
especially when you think about the
toxicity of the chemistry that created
the button on your shirt similarly
inside the collar of any cotton shirt
there's more than likely these polyester
interfacing that if you were to try to
recycle that shirt you would be
injecting a petrochemical pollutant into
a recycling system and the billikin no
one was really prepared to take on all
of these challenges that leave isaac
afforded me the space through this Aspen
Institute scholarship to really
recalibrate every single manufacturing
and design practice to create this sort
of holistically sustainable design
system my intention behind that wasn't
to create product which was simply a
research through practice proof point
but was rather to create a modular
practice that could then be taught
because jacent to that applied
sustainable methodology there's a
hypothetical sustainable business model
that takes into account considerations
like slow merchandising and and a
sustainable sustainably guided inventory
management and a whole bunch of other
some adult pedantic topics but essential
for a well working system but if you
take the two systems or the hypothetical
model in the implied system and put them
next to each other we have our modular
curricular components that become
extractable and teachable and that the
opportunity here was to take research to
practice and turn it into an applied
sustainability curricular feature that I
had the opportunity to could take out
and teach I wasn't done teaching I was
just under teaching those kids
I wanted to thought that there was value
in knowledge sharing the other the other
dilemma that sustainability in the
apparel industry often confronts is this
presumption that it's going to sort of a
wet hippie hemp poncho of some sort that
it's going to be it's going to be brown
or that it's good that it's or that a
you know a recent survey I saw said
would you would you would you rather
show
would you rather shop for ethical
faction or be sexy and I thought I love
that because it's entirely false choice
the continuum that has sexy on one side
has modest on the other and the
continuum that has ethical faction as
one choice on the opposite side has
unethical fashion and no one's ever
confronting you is that effect it's
never would you rather buy ethical
fashion or not the question needs to be
asked would you like to buy ethical
fashion or unethical fashion because if
you're about to buy something and you
can't find easily and readily the place
where it was made the location out of
the country the factory itself more than
likely the person who made that's got
something to hide if you cannot easily
determine that the thing you're about to
buy is in fact ethical fashion count on
it being unethical fashion and then
think about your decision again we
didn't want to make clothes that were
necessarily brown and and happy we
wanted to make crisp clothes attractive
clothes things people would want to wear
but we wanted to do in a way that was
holistically sustainable I'm going to
quickly go through some of the boring
little details that make this design
system different so what you see here is
a gentleman wearing a pair of a twill
two latinos a pair a cute little yellow
filled jacket a grey sweatshirt and a
white boat woven shirt underneath all
materials presented on this page were
cultivated through the better cotton
initiative which is a cross industry
consortium that seeks to modify cotton
cultivar improving the conditions of the
people who are growing cotton and the
environmental conditions of the fields
himself now it was it was developed as a
in pre competitive collaboration between
companies like Levi's Nike IKEA World
Wildlife Fund
Marks and Spencers other big cotton
consumers around the world that
represented about 10% of the total
global cotton economy but because of
their scale there was no way to start an
initiative like this and deliver a
hundred percent value to every
participant so everyone was at this
point in time committed to a stage 10%
deployment of ethical cotton here but
this was the first attempt to say can we
do 100% and we do 100% in in a versatile
way and and so it was an experiment
first in transparency sourcing but then
saying how can I as a designer modify my
expectations to facilitate
you're 100% ethical cotton deployment in
this case if you look at the white shirt
that's made from something called the
60s yarn a very very finely spun yarn so
it's 60 to 100 percent that our cotton
initiative cotton but then the the
sweatshirt that's being worn there is a
30s doubles which actually takes that
sixty single ply from the shirt size it
twice and then it's into the to the
totally different form than the original
intention which is the poplin
and then both the jacket in the pant are
made out of a three ply of that same
yarn three plies then form this grade
60s three-point will has been made into
a jacket and a pant and so you once
you've confirmed very into and very
difficult to do this once you've
confirmed the untransparent see to the
farm level exploit that and use that
single material as versatile II as
possible and you can come up with a
wholly rationalize fiber strategy but
also a certainty that no material you're
introducing here is is conflict that if
you confirm that one field has no child
or bonded labor why go somewhere else
from a t-shirt if you know the field
that's producing your shirt is good I
got some promote play self in your pan
so it was this design exercise that
really got into the weeds about how how
to break down some of the barriers of
opacity with the industry and try to
find value through smart design by
injecting values into considerations of
sustainability into decision making
where hadn't really been deployed before
when I say you know if you're going to
value recycled you must also value the
design process that makes something
recyclable in this case if you look at
that button it's a it's it's made out of
recycled cotton the reason is because we
wanted a garment that could be dropped
into a cotton garden aiding system and
be 100% pure as an input but we also
wanted to find a place to put the
outputs of that system and in this case
we were there was enough recycled
content available to make these but the
other important thing about that button
being cotton is that the entire
assortment that you see here is garment
diable because as much as we know about
the factory where any of our clothes are
made we imagine what the effluent might
be like coming out of the Button Factory
we don't know where the hell that Button
Factory is we don't know where the
threads colored we don't know
we don't know what the factory
conditions are like where they're dying
the zipper tape that's later put into
the garment so if you bring all the
potentially polluted components of an
industrial system into the one place the
actual manufacturing site where you do
have visibility and influence you are
taking responsibility for your own
impact and also eliminating the
potential for negative impact outside of
that Factory and so that's I mean that's
a lot of in the weed stuff that isn't
normally part of the design conversation
but any designer who wants to tackle the
challenge of sustainability and really
wants to sleep at night needs to
understand that this is the cost of
ethical fashion is that you have to
become aware of your impact and then and
then do everything you can to address it
and it's a lot of homework but I think
it's I think it's worth it now that was
well and good for the Dockers brand the
challenge for the Levi's brand when we
transition this process into Levi's ism
is people know what a pair of jeans is
right they know exactly what it is and
how can you you know go through and
rejigger every every component recovered
every component of an industrial process
when the output is one of the most
familiar garments in the history of a
kind and it's not it's not as it's not
easy but it's important and so the
there's a you know with the gene this
gentleman is wearing right now in every
way the look and feel is an indigo
rinsed Levi's 511 slim fat jean but the
the name of the farmer was Don Cameron
and he lives in the Central Valley he
invested in in in drip irrigation at
very expensive way of air getting a
field but it uses the agricultural
runoff from the cotton fields and tomato
fields around him and redeployed it in a
way that reduces the in water impact by
about thirty five percent in his field
we then sent this very special it also
he's a breeder of cotton he's not just a
farmer and he happened to have bred the
longest staple being the longest length
fiber cotton that's ever been cultivated
and it was a breed of supima that was
was cultivated so it would be very soft
it turns out it also had about twice the
normal tensile strength of any of any of
any other known cotton so I'm like I
want that
of values guiding cultivation and it
happens to deliver tremendous consumer
value in the form of double-strength
send it to a great mill located in
Mexico that had done unlocked a
chemistry that allowed to save about 70%
of our water in the the dye process then
send it next door to Haiti to a factory
where we use waterless processing to to
eliminate about 90% of the water used in
the conventional finishing and where
some of the proceeds of each garment
goes into a fund that's not managed by
the factory or by us but is rather
managed by in-country NGOs who who then
survey the workers who work in this
Factory and ask them what community
development projects are important to
you and in this case it happens to be
water the small town of one Oman's Haiti
was about 13 no 11,000 people sees me
when when that factory opened and levi's
we became engaged there and started
improving the working conditions well
the working editions are great people
wanted to work at that Factory that town
of 11,000 versioned into a town of
38,000 and they didn't have sufficient
water to begin with so suddenly that one
stream that goes through the villages is
there is there it's what they water they
use to to cook with to drink to laundry
to water their livestock and it becomes
the sewage drainage for the entire
community as well so once trained water
resource was being further swinging
simply by the fact that the adjacent
factory was fair and that was was a good
place to work and so what we did is we
then carved out a piece of production
bed a portion of every unit production
that goes through this factory goes to
this fund that has now built a community
water infrastructure and a huge large
community kitchen so that end and with
its fully lit so that no one's cooking
in the dark and so that we through our
industrial engagement we can not only
address the water from the field to the
mill to the factory but also in the
community where the where the where the
garment is made and then finally with
smart instruction on twisting this very
special long staple cotton we ended up
creating a garment that has vastly
reduced capillary pull and when you
bring it out of the washing machine it's
already shed most of its water it dries
in air in about 20 minutes for most
jeans you know take a couple of days and
so there's a water saving story that has
been a carefully threaded throughout the
entirety
the process and that that methodology
becomes interesting and compelling
because it was then demonstrated to be
transferable from Dockers into Levi's
the look and feel the brand new is is
appropriate but the methodology produces
an output that is consistently better
than conventional processes and and I
know that's kind of in the weeds sort of
stuff and it's not necessarily the
conventional purview of the fashion
designer so then I'm confronting this
notion that perhaps I am
cross-disciplinary in ways I hadn't
thought the next next phase after the
Aspen Institute once I was able to sort
of proof that that stable design
methodology was viable and that this
business can be made to work for good as
well as profit it was a it was a
particularly resident concept for the
for the for the for the family that
still Owens Levi Strauss and I was
invited to join the the Levi Strauss
foundation on the board of directors and
in doing so was able to sort of become
more active in crafting philanthropic
policy for one of the oldest corporate
foundations in America and it took what
I thought the role of the fashion of
that it would be and I really did think
it was just runways and you know
champagne and air kissing and stuff and
it pushed me into a very different space
and also allowed me to activate the
resources of the foundation in ways I
hadn't expected I thought I was giving
up the opportunity to teach why coming
on to work for Levi's but in fact after
executing that Aspen Institute
fellowship and publishing this design
method this educate design methodology
for education the opportunity came I
wasn't I got invitations to teach both
at CCA and at RISD and took temporary or
visiting faculty positions at both then
then there were they have the guest
lecture opportunities which were
abundant what was interesting is past
these design schools that I show up here
the number of MBA programs that started
asking for this content to be to be
brought to bear and then leveraging the
Foundation's resources was able to
participate in local philanthropies that
mattered to me a queer life space and in
the Castro and st. James infirmary over
in the Tenderloin and also developing
young fashion designers at seamless
fashion fund and here at the Fashion
Incubator for San Francisco and that was
where my heart was and right right right
when I
collect my work around my home my values
this little project showed up and and I
hate wearable technology and we just say
that I think it's it's it's it seems
like a perversion of purpose that that
technology as is an activating tool and
and and when we think about wearable
technology the first thing I can think
of is there's that right we all know
what that is
and what was the first thing we did to
that when we got this right we got rid
of that that um that that that a single
object that has been imbued with a
certain purpose and imposed on our body
the first thing we could do and we could
transfer that purpose to some other
object because we got rid of the first
object right the watch was the first in
the way for many people and it still
exists for others as sort of as a style
component but more often than not we
checked the time on our on our phone and
technology being what it is and a
blessing for the first thing or you know
five years on ten years on oh just take
all the value of this screen that exists
independent of the object itself it we
at the ideal form of the smartphone here
would be a phone with absence presence
it would be like just just the interface
and now we're going to shove all that
interface back on our wrist which i
think is an interesting strategy it
wearables have have often suffered this
particular um when you have a technology
and no place to put it you invent an
object to host it and I love this image
I hope I'm not making I'm hope I'm not
rather than anyone to hit in the rooms
product here but look at the guy he's
got Dale's smile on its face fun active
lifestyle you know it was you know pop
of electric coral you know a hoodie and
and and one half of a handcuff on the
other I just and it it seems like the
meanest form a fitness tracker could
possibly take now the there are other
expressions of wearable technology that
I also find somewhat dubious we have an
object with single function imposed
giving you advice that's really I mean
this is what your friends are for not
nice
take a deep breath away and so in with
this with so here we have is all these
technological opportunities and each one
is manifesting as a form of an
additional object in our lives and
really I think the ideal state that most
of us would like is fewer objects one of
my mentors Edina monsoon once screamed I
don't want more things no I don't want
more choices I just want nicer things
right it's one of my favorite episodes
of ABS have in fact but it's a salient
point because where we go the eventual
extension of this a proliferation of
wearable opportunity is is the scenario
where each of these things might have
been a really good idea when we first
funded them on Kickstarter but like it
turns into India it turns into a more
burden than anything and the potential
for wearable should be that unburdening
a facilitation of an easier life they
have a place where I feel uncomfortable
when is when wearables go after my
cocktail rings because that's sort of a
sacred space for me and I end and if
there's a particular purpose that's been
assigned to that particularly chunky
amethyst cocktail ring and it's not the
night right night for amethyst right
that what you do you can't possibly have
all the varieties of cocktail ring sort
of stuffed with all these varieties of
digital functionality and it's just not
fair
and then wearables often goes into a
ridiculous space and there's so much to
be said about this particular image if
she's wearing a brassiere that's been
fitted with a series of haptic
simulators and he you think he has a
device it's in control of the pattern of
stimulation in the intensity of
stimulation and it's great that they
cast a guy with no hair because
otherwise given the intensity of the
wind being blown he would look or dick I
just think it's it's
that but the whole scenario is it's it's
the objectification sexist this sort of
it's the seconds masochism by extension
and it but you know this is wearables so
we're caught in this dilemma of from the
basic right to the absurd extreme and
when you're when you have a new
technological opportunity what do you do
with it when if the sound solution isn't
the the crafting of a single object to
host that technology and that's where
the role of brand becomes somewhat
difficult I represent in the case of the
black batwing that I represent a brand
and the brand is something the brand is
it has has parameters in this case this
is the brand this is this is what Levi's
is no where in here is there an obvious
or easy place to put some technology you
guys see what I did there by the way
it's from at one time I was a model okay
[Applause]
and so when I'm considering what so in
December of 2014 we got a call from
Google saying hey we have this
tremendous new a wearable technology
opportunity woven tactile interface the
ability to weave into textile the same
function as you have on the surface of
your phone don't you night think that's
great no I don't think it's great
because this is what leave Oz is Levi's
is blue leave us as wash leave us as
heritage for the degree of authenticity
it's it is yes it's for every man and
woman it's a kid but it's also it's
distinctly organic in its texture and
what they were describing to me was
something that felt separate somewhat
imposed and not purposeful they didn't
have a suggestion of purpose when they
came to us and they just what what they
what we are is a large apparel company
is about you know 45 minutes away that
didn't seem like a good reason to take
on a project but within the Levi's
assortment we do have something that is
relevant hasn't called the the Commuter
collection and it's it's where a
purposeful design doesn't deployed in
service of the life of the urban cyclist
how do you make dry cycling around the
city better it takes into considerations
conditions on and off the bike trying to
make for an easier better ride through
you know water repellency breathability
just enough stretch we've got a smart
design in the form of
reflectors that you know the tab on your
truck or jacket opens up and becomes a
reflector or you know a little holster
for your bike lock in the back so you
don't have to awkwardly stick it in your
trousers so in denden little reflectors
on the on the cuff it was about Mart
solutions to make the ride better and
and and when we consider the opportunity
of woven tactile interface integrated
into garments in that context the harm
is is on the right this is this is we
see this all the time people on their
bike like getting directions fuzz going
around with their with their texture or
let you know in stinging and and and I
was on the ride back from Mountain View
after I said no no no this is a really
good idea that was looking at the
steering wheel of my car and saying oh
this design solution has already been
presented there are certain functions
that are taken off the dash and off of
the console and put right in the
steering wheel I can answer my phone I
can track forward track back and all of
that was to enable a safer Drive it
seems that that a signal similar
thinking could be deployed in service of
a safer ride a more present sustained
awareness on the bicycle and so that's
what we've been working towards and so
I'll try to use technology to show you a
video if
that's what the clothes and taking some
loan you know but you don't want to do
it you're on the slow number that's the
right password
now this was gonna get real
[Laughter]
[Music]
so that that I give you that no not you
not you at all
okay select huh oops well does it go
through that real quick then won't we
so so so this notion that technology
independent of purpose it wasn't
something of interest but and with it
wasn't worth taking on a challenge like
like the one we are about to confront
which is how to take well haven't acted
into interface washable what we found is
as soon as we've Mabel to find the
actual purpose which is to to create a
safer ride by by by removing the screen
taking the screen out of the face
putting it in the pocket and allowing
people to sustain eye contact or contact
with the road or maintain a degree of
presence in life that this was actually
going to make it make for a safer urban
cyclist that it went from being
something that we didn't really want to
did really something what we had to do
there was an urgency about about the
proposition as soon as we understood
that that the purpose was was was ours
and it it really stretched what we
understanding of the role of the
designer needed to be it it says that
beyond designing the object beyond
designing the consumer experience you
have to design you know while showing a
few examples here of what you have to
design that I had never comfortably
taken on the show so slow so first let
me show you that it is it is real it
does it does sort of it does work it's
not just a boondoggle in a video
turn-by-turn directions off okay
modified Google Maps specifically for
urban cyclists being able to turn off
that annoying shouting at you every
direction is about to approach it I just
need the next direction and it's too
simple or it knows where you're going
and sometimes all you need to know is
how long it's going to take you to get
there and sometimes that's all you need
you don't need it shouting everything at
you and and it was sometimes you realize
some of the format of the applications
that we that we like to use are
explicitly developed for use in the
autumn in a car and it was a willingness
on Google's part to take those apps for
example this one and reconfigure google
map for the cyclists and now prefers and
goes to cyclist mode immediately it also
will do that as soon as you start riding
your bike it recognizes telemetry
velocity and inertia and will respond to
your your behaviors and activate those
systems that are a program when once
you've come to a halt it will it knows
to let you see all of those text push
notifications that have been blocking
from you when you're on your ride but it
also knows when you're on your ride that
there are five people you need to talk
to your boss maybe not being one of them
but your mom called it will send that
one through and you can assign a color
to her identity and you it'll vibrate
you get a little pulse in your sleeve
you know to look you see the color
that's been assigned to that very short
white list of people that you want to
talk to and and you can and you could
actually you could pick up or you can
swipe and send a text it says hey I'm on
my bike I'll call you when I'm when I'm
safe so these sorts of capabilities that
um that uh that seems useful and will
worth the challenge but the challenge is
kind of big this is the this little
space right here it has been activated
with the same function as the surface of
the phone but the truth of the matter is
when we when we when we think about a
garment we think about you know image on
the right what we have now are is a very
complex system like the image on the
left and that has to get thrown in a
washing machine that that this very
discreet hidden technology has to be
sufficiently robust to hold up to all
the expectations of a normal Levi's
truck or jacket and that and that we as
designers had to make that decision do
we do
do we we know we have to protect but do
we protect and hide or to protect and at
present there are many merchants that
Levi's when we first got ahold of this
proposition that really wanted blinkers
like turn signals on the back of the
jacket and which I think is something
I've never seen a urban cyclist actually
do the you know indicate their turn
direction why they would wanted like
light themselves up to do that it was
absurd it seems that the designer in
this case is the one that would
intuitively know what the best form for
this technology would would take but the
the considerations of that form were in
a design vocabulary wholly outside of
our normal professional purview like
this this um you know the strap right
there yeah it's the right place to put a
strap and we we knew that we wanted the
VOC the vocabulary of engagement to be a
snap a simple snap like you would snap a
normal jacket but the next step is is
you know how the hell do I design that
form correctly and these are some of the
iterations that we taken in trying to
align on the perfect form of this object
similarly like this is an image of a of
these words of wash tests on the cuff
that you know the the first iterations
of this technology when we put them in
an industrial washer or a home longer
even they were failing after two or
three two or three cycles and the
failure you know looks like this this is
not the normal failure that I as a
designer would normally take on this is
a electron scanning microscope
cross-section of a broken silver
beryllium alloy wire that is somewhere
in here these are not the conversations
that are naturally comfortable but
they're the appropriate conversations to
effectively activate the technology and
so this I'm going to skip this video
because that was too hard so what I'm
describing is a system where where what
a person self really had predicated
their value on mastery of a particular
disciplinary alignment has had to extend
their understanding of that discipline
to include industrial design to include
user experience and application design
and and to include modifications of
existing cloud-based platforms and
bringing them down and making them work
with a jacket which means challenging
myself to understand what the
distinctions are between adjuster API
and a garment configuration API and
and how to design a garment that
appropriately interacts with these full
complete systems so that we what we end
up at the end of the day is still a
piece of clothing not inconsistent from
anything else in a closet that has
simply been invested with additional
value whereas those earlier iterations
of technology that I was showing where
one function into one new object and
have trying to impose that and find the
right place to plug it into your life we
already know that this is the most
successful outerwear design and history
anything is quantitative it's just 50
we've been making this design for about
50 years and people are still behind it
we know that there's traction here
so why not take that object it has
already the much-loved object and invest
it with the new values and the
technology can bring rather than trying
to another handcuff right so that so
that was um I thought was a very sort of
satisfying portfolio of activity and and
and and when I talk about my affection
for the Bay Area and what it means to
have moved out here listen when I think
about my career what I've done so far
and I think probably the best thing I've
done to date and it's still a work in
progress is is is this one last summer
when when the current ownership of the
stud the stud is almost 52 year old drag
bar the oldest drag bars in the city
right a much-loved cultural hub and
place to drink a lot and and it's been
the home for the for the weird castoffs
and castaways like myself the first
place when the first bar that I went to
when I got to the city was the stud and
that's that's a consistent story with a
lot of people who've moved here but I
don't know if you've seen this lately
it's surrounded by this new crop of
glassy condos a tower over it now is it
they're kind of bullying it a little bit
and I don't stand for bullying the new
owner of the property and the land came
to came to the table and a triple Brent
overnight with the intention of forcing
this disabilities poor little
institution out and and you know we've
been seeing this trend so much and we
all participate in it as sort of
tangential spectators we
you know because we can really blame
tech right and we're not part of tech
right but we do enjoy the burgeoning and
prosperous local cultural cultural life
and economy and and but this is the
unintentional exercise of social eminent
domain normally a government declares
blight and says that's now going to be
ours well in this case prosperity is the
blight and we have to fight back against
that somehow and so a group of us banded
together and said this must stop and and
and we've sort of branded the activity
we're going to call it resistance
economics I look back at my history and
I think of myself as a fashion designer
but when I really look at what I've done
it's been I've taken large institutions
and large companies and managed to
without their knowledge retrain some of
their behaviors to try to create social
value and try to create environmental
value and to work within the system to
create change in the system seems to be
something that well I can do and I can I
need to do and I took the little block
bat wing off of this one we could screw
it like the most important thing that
happened on January 19th for me isn't
that that I also got elected but it is
that nineteen weirdos are eating weirdos
who bought who bought a bar as a as a
cooperative or collective managed to cut
their first paychecks on the 19th of
January managed to pay themselves a
salary on the 19th of January and did it
without a gloss and it without hanging
out huge loans and did it with a big
you to the people who are trying to
force about and so when I think is the
important work that I do or if I have a
particular disciplinary purpose I am a
resistance economist and that's I guess
that concludes my long-winded
presentation
[Applause]